-- Exhale >>>>>> Inhale

-- 1. While talking slow down - Silence is good
   2. Use diaphragm-> Breathing -- exhale more co2

https://pronuncian.com/podcasts/episode218
https://www.write-out-loud.com/american-english-pronunciation.html
http://www.pbs.org/speak/speech/beastly/
http://oli.cmu.edu/courses/all-oli-courses/speech-course-details/

-- In one breath
Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers,
A peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked.
If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers,
Where's the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked?
--
A tutor who tooted the flute,
Tried to tutor two tooters to toot.
Said the two to the tutor,
"Is it easier to toot,
Or to tutor two tooters to toot?"*
--
Bobby Bibbit bought a bat.
Bobby Bibbit bought a ball.
With the bat, Bob banged the ball,
Banged the ball against the wall.
--
Amidst the mists and fiercest frosts,
With barest wrists and stoutest boasts,
He thrusts his fists against the post,
And still insists he sees the ghosts.**

-- Exercises for Consonants
High roller, low roller, lower roller.
I need a box of biscuits, a box of mixed biscuits, and a biscuit mixer.
He thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts.
The jolly collie swallowed a lollipop.
The sick sister's zither ceaseth; therefore she sufficeth us.
Friday's Five Fresh Fish Specials.
Imagine an imaginary menagerie manager imagining managing an imaginary menagerie.
The Leith police dismisseth us.
Twixt this and six thick thistle sticks.
Red leather, yellow leather.
She sells sea shells by the seashore,
and the shells she sells are sea shells.
The sixth Sikh Sheik's sixth sheep's sick. (Technically, "sheik" should be pronounced like the English word "shake" -- but that would throw off the rhyme with "sheep." Try it both ways!)
Three free thugs set three thugs free.
Charles deftly switched straight flange strips.
Gwen glowered and grimaced at Glen's gleaming greens.

-- Exercises for Vowels
    Fancy! That fascinating character Harry McCann married Anne Hammond. (This may look easy, but if you are not pronouncing all the "short a" sounds identically, you have work to do.)
    Lot lost his hot chocolate at the loft.
    Snoring Norris was marring the aria.

-- Exercises for Everything
    Eleven benevolent elephants.
    Girl gargoyle, guy gargoyle.
    Rubber baby buggy bumpers.
    She stood on the balcony inexplicably mimicking him hiccupping and amicably welcoming him in.
    Six sick slick slim sycamore saplings.

-- Repeaters
    Unique New York.
    Toy boat.
    Lemon liniment.
    Three free throws.
    Blue black bugs blood.
    Red lorry, yellow lorry.
    Giggle gaggle gurgle.

-- A-Z
A - Around the rugged rocks the ragged rascal ran.
B - Big black bug bit a big black bear and the big black bear bled black blood.
C - Can I cook a proper cup of coffee in a copper coffee pot?
D - Don't doubt the doorbell, but differ with the doorknob.
E - Eight gray geese in a green field grazing.
F - Fine white vinegar with veal.
The free thugs set three thugs free.
G - Grab the groundhog from the glazed grass.
Grey geese in a green field grazing.
H - High roller, low roller, lower roller.
How can a clam cram in a clean cream can?
I - Inexplicably mimicking him hiccupping.
I wish to wash my Irish wristwatch
J - Jingle jungle jangle joker.
K - Knit kilts for nasty cold nights.
L - Little lucky luke likes lakes, lucky little luke likes licking lakes
M - Monkeys make monopoly monotonous.
N - The Next nest will not necessarily be next to nothing.
O - Octopi occupy a porcupine's mind.
Only royal oily royal oil boils
P - Peter Prangle, the prickly pear picker, picked three perfectly prickly pears.
A proper copper coffee pot.
Q - Queen Catherine wakes the cat, and the cat quietly cries.
R - Rubber Baby Buggy Bumpers!
Roberta ran rings around the Roman ruins.
S - Some shun sunshine. Do you shun sunshine?
Six stick shifts stuck shut.
T - Three thick thistle sticks.
The thirty-three thieves thought that they thrilled the throne throughout Thursday.
U - Unique New York, Unique New York, Unique New York.
V - Venti, Grande, Tall - Very Grand Words for Large, Medium, Small.
W - Will's wetsuit is round and wet and rough and wide and ready to go on a watery ride.
Wayne went to Wales to watch walruses.
X - Xylophones exist or so existentialists insist.
Y - Yoda met a Yeti on the Plains of Serengeti.
Z - Zoologists illogically love to read astrology.


-- Diction Exercises for 'B' words:
Betty bought a bit of butter, but she found the butter bitter, so Betty bought a bit of better butter to make the bitter butter better.
Bill had a billboard.
Bill also had a board bill.
The board bill bored Bill,
So Bill sold his billboard
And paid his board bill.
Then the board bill
No longer bored Bill,
But though he had no board bill,
Neither did he have his billboard!
-- 'D' words try:
Did Doug dig David's garden or did David dig Doug's garden?
Do drop in at the Dewdrop Inn
-- 'F' :
Four furious friends fought for the phone
Five flippant Frenchmen fly from France for fashions
-- 'H' words try:
How was Harry hastened so hurriedly from the hunt?
In Hertford,Hereford and Hampshire hurricanes hardly ever happen
-- 'J' word fun:
James just jostled Jean gently.
Jack the jailbird jacked a jeep.
-- K
Kiss her quick, kiss her quicker, kiss her quickest.
My cutlery cuts keenly and cleanly.
-- 'L' :
Literally literary.
Larry sent the latter a letter later.
Lucy lingered, looking longingly for her lost lap-dog.
-- 'N' and 'U' sounds:
You know New York,
You need New York,
You know you need unique New York.
- 'P' words:
Peter piper picked a peck of pickled peppers.
If Peter piper picked a peck of pickled peppers,
Where's the peck of pickled peppers that Peter Piper picked?
Pearls, please, pretty Penelope,
Pretty Penelope, pretty Penelope,
Pearls, please, pretty Penelope,
Pretty Penelope Pring.
-- 'Q' words:
Quick kiss. Quicker kiss. Quickest kiss.
Quickly, quickly, quickly, quickly, quickly...
-- 'R' words:
Round the rugged rocks the ragged rascal ran.
Reading and writing are richly rewarding.
-- 'S' words:
Six thick thistle sticks
Theophilus Thistler, the thistle sifter, in sifting a sieve of unsifted thistles, thrust three thousand thistles through the thick of his thumb.
The shrewd shrew sold Sarah seven sliver fish slices.
Sister Susie sat on the sea shore sewing shirts for sailors.
Moses supposes his toeses are roses,
But Moses supposes erroneously,
For nobody's toeses are posies of roses
As Moses supposes his toeses to be.
(Pronounce the word 'toeses' to rhyme with 'Moses'.)
-- 'T' words:
Ten tame tadpoles tucked tightly in a thin tall tin.
Two toads, totally tired, trying to trot to Tewkesbury.
-- 'V' words:
Vincent vowed vengeance very vehemently.
Vera valued the valley violets.
And lastly, two especially for your tongue
Red leather, yellow leather...
Red lorry, yellow lorry...
And then, one more for good measure!
pirate with spyglass
This comes from Gilbert and Sullivan's light opera 'The Pirates of Penzance'.

It's guaranteed to make you work as it's the tongue's equivalent of a triathlon!

--- It includes many difficult combinations impossible to get right unless you articulate clearly. Have fun with it.

-- 'I am the very pattern of a modern Major-General;
I've information vegetable, animal, and mineral;
I know the Kings of England, and I quote the fights historical,
From Marathon to Waterloo, in order categorical;
I'm very well acquainted too with matters mathematical,
I understand equations, both simple and quadratical,
About binomial theorem I'm teeming with a lot o' news,
With many cheerful facts about the square of the hypotenuse.
I'm very good at integral and differential calculus,
I know the scientific names of beings animalculous,
In short, in matters vegetable, animal, and mineral,
I am the very model of a modern Major-General.'
