-- Smart and Gets Things Done by Joel Spolsky

-- Superstar developer traits/10X developer
  Getting things done and smarter
  Build lisp compiler on weekends for fun
  Eg.
  1. Brad Pitt -> High Salary -> Blockbuster movie
  2. Brooke's law
  3. Mediocre talent never hits high notes

-- Profit formula for tech company
  Best working conditions -> Best programmers -> Best Software -> More profit.
  Why?
  Software duplication costs no extra money.
  So, Hire the best programmers

-- Where to find Superstars
  1. They will be never on the marker
  3. Attend famous conferences eg. WWDC Apple
  4. Make best use of time and develop best side projects
  5. Never put faith on the employee referral system as it will bring the bad developers.
  6. Build community - To enter into beauty pageant 1. U must be beautiful 2. Enter into it

-- Filtering
  -- Resume selection
    1. Passion - Side projects, technology stack, Brains - GPA? School?
    2. Technology stack - Hard core Kernel/Embedded/Diversified?
    2. Communication - Check for grammar
    3. Cluster them as Amateur, Professional or Guru

  -- Phone interview (Blink - Gladwell)
    Ask
    1. Technical - Basic fizz buzz -> pointer - What is the size of pointer?, Sole dev or Dev in the team
    2. Political - If they are leading some effort , identify their role and contribution and ask how they did that
    3. Design Q - DS for photoeditor -> Algo+DS (Meat+Potato) -> Done company homework(NPS/Site visit)
    4. Coding - Speed Test

  -- On site interview guide
    1. Treat them like samurai as they came to save you from enemy. Never keep them waiting it sends negative signal

-- Working conditions
  1. Office space - (Private office/Cubicle/Open culture)
  2. How to choose the chairs - choose the best possible up to 800 USD
  3. Toys (Monitors LCD/CRT)

-- Impact of bad hire
  1. Direct : cost to company
  2. Indirect : demoralize best developers

-- How to handle the bad practices or developer
  1. Use rubber room tactic

-- Management : How to manage company
  1. Command and control - Hit and Run
  Works best in defence but it tranaslate to Hit and run tactic .DEvelopers like autonomy
  2. Econ 101 - give them raise for good performance.
    Disadvantage -
      After sometime they will find the loopholes and will try to gain the advantage of it
  3.Identity management - Intrinsic motivation, Autonomy
      Treat developers with respect communicate with them actual issue and give them rewards as necessary.

-- Best developers always hit high notes.
- Cluster developers into 3 categories
  1. Hopeless
  2. Need attention
  3. 10X

-- Joel Test
  1. Do you use source control?
  2. Can you make a build in one step?
  3. Do you make daily builds?
  4. Do you have a bug database?
  5. Do you fix bugs before writing new code?
  6. Do you have an up-to-date schedule?
  7. Do you have a spec?
  8. Do programmers have quiet working conditions?
  9. Do you use the best tools money can buy?
  10 Do you have testers?
  11 Do new candidates write code during their interview?
  12.Do you do hallway usability testing?

-- Score to choose company
  12 = perfect, 11 = tolerable, 10 < Think twice

vim: foldmethod=expr
