Soft Skills: The software developer’s life manual by John Z. Sonmez

Soft skill - It is divided into 7 sections
1. Career
2. marketing
3. Learning
4. productivity
5. Finaance
6. Fitness
7. Spirit

1. Carrer :
job is type of carrer. diferent types of carrer path
1. Employee - provide services
- need to updates with lates tech
- how to hack interview
- how to build rapport with prospective compnay
- always on the market
2. Consultant
- Decide how to charge with hourly rate

3. Enterprenuer - more risky
- more income in future
- Need to work with Blue ocean
- Create and Capture
- 75% startups fail

2. Markering
Multiplier of talent
Create the Logos,ethos,pathos
How To write the blog, video, Social media use
Start small write comment
increase the online presensen
Be everywhere strategy
Use effective tools to manage the media
52 blogs/year - > 1 blog / week


3. Productivity
Measure the time wastage
Set the SMART goals
Create the pomodoo timers
Use quota to create habbit
Handle procrasitnation - label it.
Routing then reaward but first the cue.
USe the apps to increase the transpernecy
Use the accountuibitly efficetilvy
USe the group feedback to imprive
How to handle the wall Other side of wall is sparse
Think of preocess trather than product

4. Finance
Set the goals with criteri long vs short term
How to select stoc vs options ( very risky but profitable)
Inveset in stable government bonds
Real estate requires lot of research
Hire the property mangment compnay search that compnay thourhuglty otherwiser it will cvreate more headache and they will end up with gaining your money
Debts are bad as somenone is making money from you.
Some debts are good like rental proeryt loans as loans will bet reduced during the inflation and this inflation will reduce the cost.

5. fitness 101

Walking is the best excercise
you can set differnt goals like reducing weighting or gaining muscel only set 1 goal at a time not all things can be achived.
Push, pull and legs .
Diet - fast food avoid it.
Eggs - white -ready + spianch frozen

6. Spirit

Get the mentor or virtual mentor  throgh books like MGgandhi
Be mentoru giving back ot the socity ,
It does not teach how to code but consider other factors like how to improeve the daily schedule and

Quotes
1. From Newton - Built on top of it
