-- Major steps in the interview process
Only 1 mantra - Practice, Practice and Practice

1. Self introduction
-- Soft skill
  V/S technical skills
  It's Importance in career growth and leadership
  Presenting solution to audience

2. Resume
  Task vs Achievement oriented
  Proof read
  Must be company specific

3. Coding interview
  6 steps process
    Ask a lot of relevant questions (1)
    exemplify the problem (2)
    Build solution, Test w/ normal and edge case, Iterate and design (3,4,5)
    Implement the code (6)

4. In person interview
  How to present your solution
  -- STAR technique
    S,T - Present the problem
      Pitfall 1: Mixing the problem and the solution
      Pitfall 2: Pitching to the wrong audience
    A,R - Explain your solution (must be simple, Use visual aids AMAP)
      Pitfall 1: "In the Weeds" --> Egoist
      Pitfall 2: The Chronology, or "What I did last summer"
  Maintain eye contact
  Ack audience questions, clarify it
  Don't use technical jargon i.e. In the weeds
  Explain your role in the group and present how well you work in the team.

-- 3 problems
  1. Stereotype threat - Harvard vs Hard-work
  2. Imposter syndrome - Students from Ivy league
  3. Growth mindset - Practice, Practice and Practice.

-- How to practice
  1. Record your call, video
  2. Do regular Skype Interviews
  3. Review it

-- Some useful white board tips
  1. Write big
  2. Keep space btwn LOC
  3. Try to use legible letters e.g. Do not use i/j
  4. Give meaningful names to method/classes
  5. Practice

--
  1. Less is more
  2. If you don't care about your problem no one cares.
  3. Don't panic.
  4. Normalize your breath. It is different from deep breath.

--- Employer Evaluation questions
  How did the candidate analyze the problem?
  Did the candidate miss any special or edge cases?
  Did the candidate approach the problem methodically and logically?
  Did the candidate ask clarifying questions when they were stuck?
  Does the candidate have a strong foundation in basic computer science concepts?
  Did the candidate produce working code? Did the candidate test the code?
  Is the candidate’s code clean and easy to read and maintain?
  Can the candidate explain their ideas clearly?
  Is the candidate pleasant to work with?
